In this lecture, you'll learn how to understand the output of the show ip nat translation command and
strap yourself in for this one, it's going to get a little bit hairy.
If you've already watched a few lectures in a row, now is probably a good time to grab yourself a coffee
before we get started with this one.
You can see here we've got Inside Global, Inside Local, Outside Local and Outside Global.
Now this is one of the most confusing and complicated things you're going to have to learn for the CCNA.
So you probably will find this a bit confusing if it's the first time you've seen it before. Actually, even
if it's the second time you've seen it.
To be honest, I've been working with this stuff for years and it still sometimes makes my head feel
like it's going to explode when I'm figuring out what Inside Global, what's Inside Local, Outside
Local and Outside Global is.
So let me give you a definition. And my definition is a little bit different for some of these than
you'll see in the official material.
And the reason is I'm trying to make it easier to understand here.
The official material makes it super complicated.
So hopefully this will make it a bit easier to understand.
So the definitions, Inside Local address, that's the IP address actually configured on the inside hosts
operating system.
So if we go back to the output from the show ip nat translation again, you see the inside local is
10.0.1.10.
If I go back to the network diagram again all the way back here, that is the IP address of
INT-S1 10.0.1.10.
That's actually configured in the Windows operating system.
Moving on to the next one.
The next definition is Inside Global address.
That is the NAT'd address of the inside host as it will be reached by the outside network.
So if somebody in the outside network is sending traffic in, what address are they going to be using
as their destination address?
So in our example, the inside global address is 203.0.113.3.
So Inside Local, that's the private address on the inside.
Inside Global is the public address that is used to reach the inside host.
Next one, Outside Local address.
That is the IP address of the outside host as it appears to the inside network.
So if I was a user and I went on to that server INT-S1 and sent some traffic to that host on the
outside, what IP address would I use?
Well, in that example, I would be using 203.0.113.20.
The last one is the Outside Global address.
This is the IP address assigned to the host on the outside network by the hosts owner.
So in our example here, it's the same again, 203.0.113.20.
But you may be thinking, well, OK, no, it's probably using a private IP address as well.
So it's not actually going to be that.
But the thing is, from R1's point of view, it doesn't know anything about that.
So router R1 in our example, knows one address to reach the outside host 203.0.113.20
and it does not translate that address.
So for one-way NAT, the Outside Local and Outside Global addresses will be reported as being the
same.
So looking back at the output again from our show ip nat translation command, Inside Local is the
private address in the inside 10.0.1.10. Inside Global is the NAT'd address
203.0.113.3 and then Outside Local and Outside Global are both
203.0.113.20 because R1 is not translating that address.
So it both shows up as being the same.
So now, you're probably wondering, well, when would the Outside Local and Outside Global address
ever be different then?
And here's an example of where that would happen. And it's where we're doing two-way
NAT. Now for the CCNA exam,
I'll tell you now before we get into this, that you don't really need to know 2-way NAT.
I'm just telling you this because if I didn't, you would be wondering about those Outside
addresses.
So you don't need to know how to configure this for the exam, but you do need to know those four
definitions and this is going to help you really understand about it.
So with 2-way NAT, where that is most commonly used is if we have a merger between two companies.
So here we've got company A and Company B, and they're both using the private IP addresses
10.10.10.0/24. So what we would do long term here is we would do IP readdressing because
within the same company you never want to have duplicate IP addresses on the inside.
But because in our scenario here, we've only just done the acquisition,
we haven't had time to do the IP readdressing yet, but we need immediate connectivity between most
hosts. To be able to do that,
we're going to have to do
2-way NAT. Now in the previous example, Static NAT, the way that that is most commonly used and it's
super commonly used,
is it's one-way NAT. When we've got, when we are sending traffic from the inside to the outside,
we need to NAT the private IP address to the public IP address. And that's the source address
we're changing, but the destination address did not need to change. When we do
2-way NAT, we actually change,
we NAT both the source and the destination address and where it's needed is for just this exact scenario
here where we've had a merger between two companies.
We need connectivity to each other and they're using the same IP addresses.
If they weren't using the same IP addresses, we wouldn't need to do this.
So in our example, 10.10.10.10 on the left and on the right as well.
So we're going to do NAT here.
And for Company A on the left, the 10.10.10.0 network,
we're going to NAT it to 10.10.20.0.
So it looks like 10.10.20.0 to the hosts on the right. And Company B on the right,
we're going to NAT their address to 10.10.30.0 so it looks like 10.10.30.0 to the hosts
on the left.
So when we send traffic from host A1 to host B1, on R1, it will translate the source
address from 10.10.10.10 to 10.10.20.10.
This is similar if we were just doing our standard NAT.
But we also need to translate the destination address from 10.10.30.10 to 10.10.10.10.
We need to translate the destination address as well because if host A1 tried to send traffic
to host B1's real
IP address 10.10.10.10,
well, that's itself.
So it would never actually get there.
So we need to translate both the source and the destination as well for connectivity to work.
That is 2-way NAT. Now in the real world,
hopefully this is quite obvious,
it's very rare that you would ever need to do this.
It's really just that one scenario that I gave you, an acquisition between two companies.
You haven't had time to do readdressing yet and you need to have immediate connectivity.
So it's a very rare situation.
When we do this, so the Inside Local source IP of A1 on the left is going to be
10.10.10.10. The Inside Global source IP will be 10.10.20.10.
That's the address that we're Natting it to and that it will be presented to B1 because we can't send traffic
that gets to B1 that shows up is coming from 10.10.10.10 because that would be a
conflict.
So we're changing A1's source address to 10.10.20.10 when it communicates with B1. The Outside
Local destination IP, with 10.10.30.10.
That is the IP address that the host A1 actually sends traffic to.
And as far as A1 is concerned, that is the destination address.
But we also need to translate the destination address as well from 10.10.30.10 to
10.10.10.10, which is B1's actual IP address.
OK, so that's how to understand the output of the show ip nat translation command.
You'll actually see me using the command in the next lecture where we're going to do a lab demo of
how to configure Static NAT.